Add drafts for RFC 6 & 7 (Ethereum defs and Ether HTLC) (#38)
comit-network/RFCs: RFC-007-SWAP-Ethereum-basic.md

# Ethereum Basic HTLC Atomic Swap

- RFC-Number: 007
- Status: Draft
- Discussion-issue: -
- Created on: 2019-03-12

## Table of Contents
<!-- toc -->
- [Description](#description)
- [The Ethereum Identity](#the-ethereum-identity)
- [Hash Time Lock Contract](#hash-time-lock-contract)
    - [Hash Functions](#hash-functions)
    - [Parameters](#parameters)
    - [Contract](#contract)
- [Execution Phase](#execution-phase)
    - [Deployment](#deployment)
    - [Redeem](#redeem)
    - [Refund](#refund)
- [Registry extension](#registry-extension)
- [Examples](#examples)
    - [RFC003 SWAP REQUEST](#rfc003-swap-request)
    - [RFC003 SWAP RESPONSE](#rfc003-swap-response)
    - [HTLC](#htlc)

<!-- tocstop -->

## Description

This RFC defines how to execute a [RFC003](./RFC-003-SWAP-basic.md) SWAP where one of the ledgers is Ethereum and the associated asset is the native Ether asset.

For definitions of the Ethereum ledger and Ether asset see [RFC006](./RFC-004-SWAP-Ethereum.md).

To fulfil the requirements of [RFC003](./RFC-003-SWAP-basic.md) this RFC defines:

- The [identity](./RFC-003-SWAP-basic.md#identity) to be used when negotiating a SWAP on the Ethereum ledger.

> - How to construct a Hash Time Lock Contract (HTLC) to lock the Ether asset on the Ethereum blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- How to construct a Hashed TimeLock Contract (HTLC) to lock the Ether asset on the Ethereum blockchain.
```

This is how it is written in previous RFCs.

Author: It isn't though🤨

Reviewer: I guess it *was*, I did a search locally before saying that....

- How to deploy, redeem and refund the HTLC during the execution phase of [RFC003](./RFC-003-SWAP-basic.md).

## The Ethereum Identity

> The Identity to be used on Ethereum is the Ethereum *address* as defined in section 284 of the [Ethereum Yellowpaper](https://ethereum.github.io/yellowpaper/paper.pdf).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The identity to be used on Ethereum is the Ethereum *address* as defined in section 284 of the [Ethereum Yellowpaper](https://ethereum.github.io/yellowpaper/paper.pdf).
```

Let's be consistent on the casing. I don't mind either way (capitalised or not).

It is defined as the right most 160-bits (20 bytes) of the Keccak-256 hash of the corresponding ECDSA public key.

In the JSON encoding, an ethereum address MUST be encoded as this 20 byte hex string prefixed by `0x` (as is standard in the Ethereum ecosystem).
Furthermore, implementations MUST also accept [EIP50](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-55.md) mixed case addresses and MAY verify the checksum.

This RFC extends the [registry](./registry.md) with the following entry in the identity table:

| Ledger   | Identity Name | JSON Encoding         | Description         |
|:---------|:--------------|:----------------------|---------------------|
| Ethereum | `address`     | `0x` prefixed address | An Ethereum Address |

Note that since *contract* addresses and *user* addresses are indistinguishable, technically the address used in a SWAP could be that of a contract rather than a user.
RFCs that use the Ethereum Identity defined here should explain the impact (if any) this has on the protocol.
There is nothing inherently wrong from the perspective of this RFC about using a contract address as an identity.

> ## Hash Time Lock Contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Hashed TimeLock Contract
```

Ref previous comment regarding consistency of HTLC definition

### Hash Functions

This RFC specifies SHA-256 as the only value the `hash_function` parameter to `comit-rfc-003` may take if Ethereum is used as a ledger.
This may be expanded in subsequent RFCs.

### Parameters

The parameters for the Ether HTLC follow [RFC003](./RFC-003-SWAP-basic.md#hash-time-lock-contract-htlc) and are described concretely in the following table:

| Variable        | Description                                                                 |
|:----------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | asset           | The quantity of wei                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `asset`           | The quantity of wei                                                         |
```

All parameters are back-ticked in the other draft so I'd expect consistency.

Author: This is a different table with different semantics.

| secret_hash     | The hash of the `secret` (32 bytes for SHA-256)                             |
| redeem_identity | The `address` of the redeeming party                                        |
| refund_identity | The `address` of the refunding party                                        |
| expiry          | The absolute UNIX timestamp in seconds after which the HTLC can be refunded |

### Contract

This RFC defines a single disposable contract as the HTLC.

> It uses `selfdestruct` to release the funds to the intended party.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It uses `selfdestruct()` to release the funds to the intended party.
```

As it is a function I think using brackets is better.

Author: I mentioned that it's an opcode (I don't such a dangerous function in markdown)

    <expiry>

    // Compare refund timestamp with current timestamp
    lt

    // Jump to refund if time is expired
    refund
    jumpi

exit:
    // Exit
    return(0, 0)

redeem:
    log1(0, 32, 0xB8CAC300E37F03AD332E581DEA21B2F0B84EAAADC184A295FEF71E81F44A7413) // log keccak256("Redeemed()")
    selfdestruct(<redeem_identity>)

refund:
    log1(0, 0, 0x5D26862916391BF49478B2F5103B0720A842B45EF145A268F2CD1FB2AED55178) // log keccak256("Refunded()")
    selfdestruct(<refund_identity>)
}

```

The following is the contract deployment code encoded template as hex which will deploy the above contract when the placeholder values (set to `00`s) are replaced with the parameters.

```
6100dc61000f6000396100dc6000f336156051576020361415605c57602060006000376020602160206000600060026048f17f0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000602151141660625760006000f35b42630000000010609f575b60006000f35b7fb8cac300e37f03ad332e581dea21b2f0b84eaaadc184a295fef71e81f44a741360206000a1730000000000000000000000000000000000000000ff5b7f5d26862916391bf49478b2f5103b0720a842b45ef145a268f2cd1fb2aed5517860006000a1730000000000000000000000000000000000000000
```

> To compile the contract code replace the placeholder values with the HTLC paramters at the following offsets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To compile the contract code replace the placeholder values with the HTLC parameters at the following offsets:
```
typo

| Data              | Position of first byte | Position of last byte | Length (bytes) |
|:------------------|:-----------------------|:----------------------|:---------------|
| `secret_hash`     | 51                     | 82                    | 32             |
| `expiry`          | 99                     | 102                   | 4              |
| `redeem_identity` | 153                    | 172                   | 20             |
| `refund_identity` | 219                    | 248                   | 20             |

The contract emits two logs:

| Topic        | keccack256(Topic)                                                  | Data     | Emitted When             |
|:-------------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|:-------------------------|
| `Redeemed()` | 0xb8cac300e37f03ad332e581dea21b2f0b84eaaadc184a295fef71e81f44a7413 | `secret` | The contract is redeemed |
| `Refunded()` | 0x5d26862916391bf49478b2f5103b0720a842b45ef145a268f2cd1fb2aed55178 | -        | The contract is refunded |

Implementations SHOULD use the following gas limits on the transactions related to the contract:

> | Transaction | recommended gas limit |

Reviewer: ❓ how confident are we on these values?

Author: We can be confident in them simply by using them.

|:------------|-----------------------|
| Deployment  | 121,000               |
| Redeem      | 100,000               |
| Refund      | 100,000               |

## Execution Phase

The following section describes how both parties should interact with the Ethereum blockchain during the [RFC003 execution phase](./RFC-003-SWAP-basic.md#execution-phase).

### Deployment

> At the start of the deployment stage, both parties compile the contract code as described in the previous section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the start of the deployment stage, both parties construct the contract code as described in the previous section.
```
`compiles` implies conversion from EVM to hex. As we do not want people to do that, I think `construct` would be better (or anything that is not compile/build).

Author: I prefer compiles.

We will call this value `contract_code`.

To deploy the Ether HTLC, the *funder* must deploy the `contract_code`.
They SHOULD do this by sending a contract deployment transaction to the relevant Ethereum blockchain with:

- `contract_code` as the `data` of the transaction
- The quantity of wei specified in the Ether Asset header as the `value` of the transaction

> The funder SHOULD NOT do this through another contract, i.e. by executing the `CREATE` opcode.

Reviewer: Never thought of that. Are we able to work around this limitation?

Reviewer 2: We would need a Deployed event I guess.

Author: True. I guess we could change this so we look for a deployed event (with the secret hash as part of the descriptor). We would still have to validate the content of the transaction. It's a bit weird though. Feel free to bring it up in the tracking issue (when it's created).

| Ledger   | Identity Name | JSON Encoding         | Description         |
|:---------|:--------------|:----------------------|---------------------|
| Ethereum | `address`     | `0x` prefixed address | An Ethereum Address |

# Examples

## RFC003 SWAP REQUEST

The following shows an [RFC003](RFC-003-SWAP-basic.md) SWAP REQUEST where the `alpha_ledger` is Ethereum, the `alpha_asset` is 1 Ether (with `...` being used where the value is only relevant for the `beta_ledger`).

``` json
{
  "type": "SWAP",
  "headers": {
    "alpha_ledger": {
      "value": "ethereum",
      "parameters": { "network": "mainnet" }
    },
    "beta_ledger": {...},
    "alpha_asset": {
      "value": "ether",
      "parameters": { "quantity": "1000000000000000000" }
    },
    "beta_asset": {...},
    "protocol": {
        "value" : "comit-rfc-003",
        "parameters" : { "hash_function" : "SHA-256" }
    }
  },
  "body": {
    "aplha_ledger_refund_identity": "0x0f59e9e105be01d5e2206792a267406f255c5ea5",
    "alpha_expiry": 1552263040,
    "secret_hash" : "adebd583a094215e963ebe4a1474b9bb4bf48167e64f3f474d71e41a75494bbb",
    "beta_ledger_redeem_identity" : "...",
    "beta_expiry" : ...
  },
}
```

> 

Author: ❌ Include pre-image of secret_hash

- [Hash Time Lock Contract](#hash-time-lock-contract)
    - [Hash Functions](#hash-functions)
    - [Parameters](#parameters)
    - [Contract](#contract)
- [Execution Phase](#execution-phase)
    - [Deployment](#deployment)
    - [Redeem](#redeem)
    - [Refund](#refund)
- [Registry extension](#registry-extension)
- [Examples](#examples)
    - [RFC003 SWAP REQUEST](#rfc003-swap-request)
    - [RFC003 SWAP RESPONSE](#rfc003-swap-response)
    - [HTLC](#htlc)

<!-- tocstop -->

## Description

This RFC defines how to execute a [RFC003](./RFC-003-SWAP-basic.md) SWAP where one of the ledgers is Ethereum and the associated asset is the native Ether asset.

For definitions of the Ethereum ledger and Ether asset see [RFC006](./RFC-004-SWAP-Ethereum.md).

To fulfil the requirements of [RFC003](./RFC-003-SWAP-basic.md) this RFC defines:

- The [identity](./RFC-003-SWAP-basic.md#identity) to be used when negotiating a SWAP on the Ethereum ledger.
- How to construct a Hash Time Lock Contract (HTLC) to lock the Ether asset on the Ethereum blockchain.
- How to deploy, redeem and refund the HTLC during the execution phase of [RFC003](./RFC-003-SWAP-basic.md).

## The Ethereum Identity

> [RFC003](./RFC-003-SWAP-basic.md) requires ledgers have an *identity* type specified to negotiate a SWAP.

Author: Added it to Bitcoin :)

The identity to be used on Ethereum is the Ethereum *address* as defined in equation 284 of the [Ethereum Yellowpaper](https://ethereum.github.io/yellowpaper/paper.pdf) as the right most 160-bits (20 bytes) of the Keccak-256 hash of the corresponding ECDSA public key.

In the JSON encoding, an ethereum address MUST be encoded as this 20 byte hex string prefixed by `0x` (as is standard in the Ethereum ecosystem).
Furthermore, implementations MUST also accept [EIP50](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-55.md) mixed case addresses and MAY verify the checksum.

This RFC extends the [registry](./registry.md) with the following entry in the identity table:

| Ledger   | Identity Name | JSON Encoding         | Description         |
|:---------|:--------------|:----------------------|---------------------|
| Ethereum | `address`     | `0x` prefixed address | An Ethereum Address |

> Note that since *contract* addresses and *user* addresses are indistinguishable, technically the address used in a SWAP could be that of a contract rather than a user.

Author: see https://github.com/comit-network/RFCs/pull/38/commits/86011cbea0f06c4ebf7e356cc24f0391fa1b7a6c

RFCs that use the Ethereum identity defined here should explain the impact (if any) this has on the protocol.

> There is nothing inherently wrong from the perspective of this RFC about using a contract address as an identity.

Author: see https://github.com/comit-network/RFCs/pull/38/commits/86011cbea0f06c4ebf7e356cc24f0391fa1b7a6c

> There is nothing inherently wrong from the perspective of this RFC about using a contract address as an identity.

Reviewer 3: Nice!

We will call this value `contract_code`.

To deploy the Ether HTLC, the *funder* must deploy the `contract_code`.
They SHOULD do this by sending a contract deployment transaction to the relevant Ethereum blockchain with:

- `contract_code` as the `data` of the transaction
- The quantity of wei specified in the Ether Asset header as the `value` of the transaction

The funder SHOULD NOT do this through another contract, i.e. by executing the `CREATE` opcode.

To be notified of the deployment event, both parties MAY watch the blockchain for a transaction with the `contract_code` as the data.
Upon observing the deployment transaction, both parties SHOULD record the address the contract was deployed to (referred to as `contract_address` from now on).

### Redeem

Before redeeming, the redeemer SHOULD wait until the deployment transaction has enough confirmation such that they consider it permanent.

To redeem the HTLC, the redeemer SHOULD send a transaction to the `contract_address` with the `data` of the transaction set to the `secret`.

To be notified of the redeem event, both parties SHOULD watch the blockchain for `contract_address` emitting the `Redeemed()` log.

> If Ethereum is the `beta_ledger`, then the funder (Bob) MUST watch for such a log, extract the `secret` from the transaction receipt and continue the protocol.

Reviewer 3: Also `beta_ledger` and Bob have not been introduced before in this document. I would at least link to the [relevant section](https://github.com/comit-network/RFCs/blob/master/RFC-003-SWAP-basic.md#4-bob-redeems) in RFC003.

> If Ethereum is the `beta_ledger`, then the funder (Bob) MUST watch for such a log, extract the `secret` from the transaction receipt and continue the protocol.

Author: There are many details that could lose someone money! I agree this could be expanded to show the details of how exactly extract the secret. I would like to leave this for a future revision though.

In this case, Bob MUST NOT watch for a transaction sent to `contract_address` with the `secret` as `data`.

> If he does this, he will miss learning the `secret` if the contract is redeemed by a call from another contract (rather than from a transaction).

Reviewer 3: :wrench: It could be clearer to say that it is "not enough" or "insufficient" to watch for these transactions.
```suggestion
This would be insufficient, because he would miss learning the `secret` if the contract is redeemed by a call from another contract (rather than from a transaction).
```

### Refund

To refund the HTLC, the funder MUST send a transaction to `contract_address` with empty data in a block with timestamp greater than `expiry`.

To be notified of the refund event, both parties SHOULD watch the blockchain for  `contract_address` emitting the `Refunded()` log.

## Registry extension

This RFC extends the [registry](./registry.md#identities) with an identity definition for the Ethereum ledger:

| Ledger   | Identity Name | JSON Encoding         | Description         |
|:---------|:--------------|:----------------------|---------------------|
| Ethereum | `address`     | `0x` prefixed address | An Ethereum Address |

> # Examples

Reviewer 3: :wrench: 
```suggestion
# Examples/Test vectors
```
